# State Management Terms
<!--Kit: ArkUI-->
<!--Subsystem: ArkUI-->
<!--Owner: @zany_pink-->
<!--Designer: @s10021109-->
<!--Tester: @zhangwenhan12-->
<!--Adviser: @zhang_yixin13-->

## A

### Attribute-Level Updates

The state management framework uses the class attribute decorator to observe attributes in class objects. When an attribute changes, only the component bound to the attribute is updated. The components bound to other attributes that do not change are not updated.

## D

### Data Source

Original source of a state variable, which can be synchronized to different state data. Generally, it is the data passed from the parent component to the child component.

### Deep Monitor

The \@Monitor decorator is used to listen to data changes. In-depth listening recursively listens to all nested attributes of an object or array.

### Deep Observation

The deep observation capability means that the UI can recursively observe all nested attributes of an object or an array.

## L

### Local Initialization

A value is assigned when a variable is declared as the default value of the variable.

## M

### Mark Dirty

When a state variable changes, the framework marks the system components that depend on the variable and the custom components to which the variable belongs as dirty. In the subsequent UI rendering process, the dirty nodes will be refreshed.

### Minimum Updates

Minimized update is an optimization policy of the UI framework. It ensures that only the changed part is updated, that is, only the system components bound to the changed state variables are updated, avoiding unnecessary rendering operations.

## N

### Named Parameter Mechanism

A parent component transfers a state variable to a child component through a specified parameter, which is the main method for the parent component to transfer synchronization parameters to the child component.

## O

### One-Layer Monitor

\@The Watch decorator is used to listen to data changes. Only the changes of the first-layer attributes of an object or array can be listened to. Nested attributes are not listened to recursively.

### One-Layer Observation

The UI can observe the changes of the layer-1 attributes of the state variables decorated by the V1 decorator, such as @State and @Prop.

### One-Way Synchronization

Data can flow only in one direction, usually from a parent component to a child component. A child component can receive data from its parent component, but cannot directly modify the data source of its parent component.

## R

### Reference Transmission

When a function is called or a variable is assigned a value, the variable itself is transferred, including the logic of [Collecting Dependencies](./arkts-state-management-introduce.md#collecting-dependencies) and [Triggering Updates](./arkts-state-management-introduce.md#triggering-updates).

### Regular Variables

A variable that is not decorated by a state decorator and is usually used for auxiliary calculation. Its value change will not trigger UI re-renders.

### Render Phase

The render phase is a phase in the status management [triggering updates](./arkts-state-management-introduce.md#triggering-updates). It refers to the process of refreshing the UI after the component [marking dirty](#mark-dirty) is complete and the next frame signal arrives. In this process, the framework traverses the dirty custom component list, calls the re-render method generated by the system, traverses dirty system components, refreshes components, and updates dependencies.

## S

### State Variables

Variable decorated by the state decorator. The change of the state variable value causes the UI rendering update.

## T

### Trailing Lambda

Tail closure is a syntax feature of ArkTS. When a closure is used as the last parameter of a function, the closure expression can be written after the function call parenthesis to improve code readability.

### Two-way Synchronization

Data can flow in two directions, and parent and child components can modify each other.

## V

### Value Transmission

When a function is called or a value is assigned to a variable, the value of the variable instead of the variable itself is transferred. The logic for collecting dependencies and triggering updates is not included.

### View

A view refers to a UI.
