# Viewing HiTraceMeter Logs

<!--Kit: Performance Analysis Kit-->
<!--Subsystem: HiviewDFX-->
<!--Owner: @qq_437963121-->
<!--Designer: @kutcherzhou1; @MontSaintMichel-->
<!--Tester: @gcw_KuLfPSbe-->
<!--Adviser: @foryourself-->

## Viewing Logs on DevEco Studio

In DevEco Studio Profiler, you can display HiTraceMeter logs to analyze the CPU usage and thread running status of applications and services and view the CPU consumption in a specified period. For details, see [CPU Activity Analysis: CPU](https://developer.huawei.com/consumer/en/doc/harmonyos-guides/ide-insight-session-cpu).


## Viewing Logs Using Command Line Tools

1. Set up the environment for OpenHarmony Device Connector (hdc). For details, see [Environment Setup](hdc.md#environment-setup).

2. In the **Terminal** window of DevEco Studio or the CLI on the host, run the **hdc shell** command to connect to the device, and run the [HiTrace](hitrace.md) command on the device to enable the HiTraceMeter logging service.

   ```shell
   PS D:\xxx\xxx> hdc shell
   $ hitrace --trace_begin app
   ```

3. Run the program that enables the HiTraceMeter logging on the device.

4. Use HiTrace to collect trace information in text format and save the trace file to the **/data/local/tmp/** directory of the device. For details, see [Capturing Text Trace Data in Snapshot Mode](hitrace.md#capturing-text-trace-data-in-snapshot-mode).

5. Exit the device, enter the host, and export the HiTraceMeter text logs to the current directory. (Change the file name **trace.ftrace** in the following command based on the file name set during collection.)

   ```shell
   $ exit
   PS D:\xxx\xxx> hdc file recv /data/local/tmp/trace.ftrace ./
   ```

6. You can search for keywords such as the logging name in the HiTraceMeter logs to check whether the logging is successful.

7. Display and analyze the HiTraceMeter text file.

   - Import the log file to DevEco Studio for analysis.

      In DevEco Studio Profiler, select **Open File** to import the HiTraceMeter log file. 

      For details, see [CPU Activity Analysis: CPU](https://developer.huawei.com/consumer/en/doc/harmonyos-guides/ide-insight-session-cpu).
   - Analyze the log using the Smartperf_Host tool. Download the tool from https://gitcode.com/openharmony/developtools_smartperf_host/releases.

## User-Mode Trace Format

You can run the hitrace command to collect user-mode trace logs generated by HiTraceMeter APIs and analyze the performance of your application. The following describes the format and extension rule for user-mode traces of the synchronous, asynchronous, and integer value types, including the field composition, description, and relationship between fields and input parameters, as well as [Sample Trace Logs in Different Scenarios](#sample-trace-logs-in-different-scenarios) for reference.

For details about the user-mode trace format of API version 19 or later, see <b>User-Mode Trace Format of the Current Version</b>. For details about the user-mode trace format of versions earlier than API version 19, see <b>User-Mode Trace Format of Versions Earlier Than API Version 19</b>.


### User-mode Trace Format Since API Version 19

**Synchronous trace**

 * Start trace: [Type identifier]|[Process ID]|H:[ID of the distributed call chain tracing task]#[Content]|[Level and tag set]|[Custom key-value pair]

 * End trace: [Type identifier]|[Process ID]|[Level and tag set]

A synchronous trace consists of a start trace (Type identifier: **B**) and an end trace (Type identifier: **E**).


**Asynchronous trace**

 * Start trace: [Type identifier]|[Process ID]|H:[ID of the distributed call chain tracing task]#[Content]|[Asynchronous task ID]|[Level and tag set]|[Custom category name]|[Custom key-value pair]

 * End trace: [Type identifier]|[Process ID]|H:[ID of the distributed call chain tracing task]#[Content]|[Asynchronous task ID]|[Level and tag set]

An asynchronous trace consists of a start trace (Type identifier: **S**) and an end trace (Type identifier: **F**).


**Integer trace**

 * Trace format: [Type identifier]|[Process ID]|H:[ID of the distributed call chain tracing task]#[Content]|[Integer value]|[Level and tag set]

An integer value trace contains only one independent trace whose type identifier is **C**.

> **NOTE**
>
> 1. A valid and complete synchronous trace or asynchronous trace contains a start trace and an end trace. You need to ensure that the API calls match. Otherwise, the performance trace may be abnormal. For details, see the ArkTS API @ohos.hiTraceMeter (performance tracing) (../reference/apis-performance-analysis-kit/js-apis-hitracemeter.md) or the C++ API [capi-trace-h](../reference/apis-performance-analysis-kit/capi-trace-h.md).
> 2. The maximum length of a user-mode trace is 512 characters. Excess characters will be truncated.


### Field description

This section describes the fields of a user-mode trace, including the field composition, meaning, and relationship between the fields and the input parameters of the tracing API. The @ohos.hiTraceMeter (performance tracing) (../reference/apis-performance-analysis-kit/js-apis-hitracemeter.md) API is used as an example.

- **Type Identifier**

  The type identifier is associated with the called [@ohos.hiTraceMeter (Performance Tracing)](../reference/apis-performance-analysis-kit/js-apis-hitracemeter.md) API. The mappings are as follows:

  - **B**: Identifies the start of a synchronous time slice trace.
  - **E**: Identifies the end of a synchronous time slice trace.
  - **S**: Identifies the start of an asynchronous time slice trace.
  - **F**: Identifies the end of an asynchronous time slice trace.
  - **C**: Identifies the integer trace event.

- **ID of the Distributed Call Chain Tracing Task**

  When HiTraceChain (distributed tracing) is enabled, the [HiTraceId](../reference/apis-performance-analysis-kit/capi-hitrace-hitraceid.md) core information is recorded in the trace, in the format of `[ChainId,SpanId,ParentSpanId]`. The `#` separator is used at the end to separate the content field.

  When HiTraceChain (Distributed Tracing) is not enabled, this field is not included in the trace logs.

  - `ChainId`: chain ID of HiTraceId.
  - `SpanId`: span ID of HiTraceId.
  - `ParentSpanId`: parent span ID of HiTraceId.

  For details about how to use HiTraceChain, see [Using HiTraceChain to Add Tracing Points (ArkTS)](hitracechain-guidelines-arkts.md) and [Using HiTraceChain to Add Tracing Points (C/C++)](hitracechain-guidelines-ndk.md).

- **Content**

  This field indicates the name of a trace task or an integer variable. It corresponds to the `name` input parameter of the @ohos.hiTraceMeter (performance tracing point) (../reference/apis-performance-analysis-kit/js-apis-hitracemeter.md) API.

- **Asynchronous Task ID**

  This field and the content field are used to match the start and end of the same asynchronous trace. It corresponds to the `taskId` input parameter of the @ohos.hiTraceMeter (performance tracing point) (../reference/apis-performance-analysis-kit/js-apis-hitracemeter.md) API.

- **Integer Value**

  This field is the value of the integer variable to trace and is contained only in the integer value trace task. It corresponds to the `count` input parameter of the @ohos.hiTraceMeter (performance tracing point) (../reference/apis-performance-analysis-kit/js-apis-hitracemeter.md) API.

- **Level and Tag Set**

  This field consists of the level and tag.

  The level is passed through the logging API, whose value can be **D**, **I**, **C**, or **M**. It corresponds to the **level** parameter in the [@ohos.hiTraceMeter (Performance Tracing)](../reference/apis-performance-analysis-kit/js-apis-hitracemeter.md) API. For details about the description and mappings, see[HiTraceOutputLevel](#hitraceoutputlevel).

  The tag set indicates the tags of the trace, each of which is represented by a two-digit number. The tag set can contain multiple two-digit numbers in ascending order.

  For example, in `B|1314|H:TestFunction|I3062`, `I` indicates that the dotting level is `Info`, and `3062` indicates the tag set to which the dotting belongs. According to the mapping between tag names and values, `30` corresponds to the `ohos` tag, and `62` corresponds to the `app` tag. For details, see [HiTraceMeter Tag](#hitracemeter-tag).

  > **NOTE**
  >
  > 1. Since API version 19, the output level can be customized. In versions earlier than API version 19, the output level is **COMMERCIAL** by default.
  >
  > 2. If a user-mode trace on the system side belongs to multiple tags, the user-mode trace dotting function provided by the ArkTS API @ohos.hiTraceMeter (performance dotting) (../reference/apis-performance-analysis-kit/js-apis-hitracemeter.md) and the C++ API [capi-trace-h](../reference/apis-performance-analysis-kit/capi-trace-h.md) cannot specify the `tag set`. The tag category is fixed to `app`, and the field value is `62`.


- **Custom Category Name**

  This field can be used for custom trace collection. It corresponds to the `customCategory` input parameter of the @ohos.hiTraceMeter (performance dotting) (../reference/apis-performance-analysis-kit/js-apis-hitracemeter.md) API. The value of this field may be empty, which changes the log format. For details, see [Empty Field Scenarios](#empty-field-scenarios).

  In the trace analysis tool, asynchronous traces with the same category name in the same process are displayed in the same lane.

- **Custom Key-Value Pair**

  This field is in the format of **key=value**. Multiple key-value pairs are separated by commas (,), for example, **key1=value1,key2=value2**. It corresponds to the **customArgs** parameter of the [@ohos.hiTraceMeter (Performance Tracing)](../reference/apis-performance-analysis-kit/js-apis-hitracemeter.md) API. The value of this field may be empty, which changes the log format. For details, see [Empty Field Scenarios](#empty-field-scenarios).

  In the trace analysis tool, the parsing results of custom key-value pairs that meet the format requirements are displayed in key-value pairs.


### Field Extension Rule

Since API version 19, new fields are added to the end of the current user-mode trace format in the format of **|field**.


### Sample Trace Logs in Different Scenarios

| Trace Type         | Format When HiTraceChain is Enabled                                      | Format When HiTraceChain is Disabled                                    |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Start a synchronous trace logging| B\|1234\|H:[a92ab94c18e1341,0,0]#tracename\|M62\|user=root,type=2 | B\|1234\|H:tracename\|M62\|user=root,type=2                  |
| Stop a synchronous trace logging| E\|1234\|M62                                                 | E\|1234\|M62                                                 |
| Start an asynchronous trace logging| S\|1234\|H:[a92ab94c18e1341,0,0]#tracename\|428\|M62\|appcategory01\|user=root,type=2 | S\|1234\|H:tracename\|428\|M62\|appcategory01\|user=root,type=2 |
| Stop an asynchronous trace logging| F\|1234\|H:[a92ab94c18e1341,0,0]#tracename\|428\|M62         | F\|1234\|H:tracename\|428\|M62                               |
| Log an integer trace    | C\|1234\|H:[a92ab94c18e1341,0,0]#tracename\|5678\|M62        | C\|1234\|H:tracename\|5678\|M62                              |

In the preceding samples, the process ID is **1234**, the content is **tracename**, the level is **M**, indicating the **COMMERCIAL** level, the tag set is **62**, corresponding to the **app** tag. When HiTraceChain is enabled, the ID of the distributed call chain tracing task is **[a92ab94c18e1341,0,0]**. The key-value pairs of the synchronous trace and asynchronous trace are `user=root,type=2`. The asynchronous task ID in the asynchronous trace is `428`, and the customized cluster name is `appcategory01`. The value of the integer variable to trace is **5678**.

> **NOTE**
>
> The maximum length of a user-mode trace is 512 characters. Excess characters will be truncated. Therefore, it is recommended that the total length of the **tracename**, **customCategory**, and **customArgs** fields be less than or equal to 420 characters.

### Empty Field Scenarios

In the user-mode trace, if the middle field is empty, the vertical bar (|) is retained. If the last field is empty, the vertical bar (|) is removed. [hiTraceMeter.startAsyncTrace()](../reference/apis-performance-analysis-kit/js-apis-hitracemeter.md#hitracemeterstartasynctrace19) and [hiTraceMeter.startSyncTrace()](../reference/apis-performance-analysis-kit/js-apis-hitracemeter.md#hitracemeterstartsynctrace19) `Customized Cluster Name` and `Customized Key-Value Pair` parameters are used as examples. The corresponding format is as follows:

- Start of a synchronous trace

  - The value of **customArgs** is not empty:

    ```text
    B|[Process ID]|H:[ID of the distributed call chain tracing task]#[Content]|[Level and tag set]|[Custom key-value pair]
    ```

  - The value of **customArgs** is empty:

    ```text
    B|[Process ID]|H:[ID of the distributed call chain tracing task]#[Content]|[Level and tag set]
    ```

- Start of an asynchronous trace

  - The values of **customCategory** and **customArgs** are not empty:

    ```text
    S|[Process ID]|H:[ID of the distributed call chain tracing task]#[Content]|[Asynchronous task ID]|[Level and tag set]|[Custom category name]|[Custom key-value pair]
    ```

  - The value of **customCategory** is empty while the value of **customArgs** is not empty:

    ```text
    S|[Process ID]|H:[ID of the distributed call chain tracing task]#[Content]|[Asynchronous task ID]|[Level and tag set]||[Custom key-value pair]
    ```

  - The value of **customCategory** is not empty while the value of **customArgs** is empty:

    ```text
    S|[Process ID]|H:[ID of the distributed call chain tracing task]#[Content]|[Asynchronous task ID]|[Level and tag set]|[Custom category name]
    ```

  - The values of **customCategory** and **customArgs** are empty:

    ```text
    S|[Process ID]|H:[ID of the distributed call chain tracing task]#[Content]|[Asynchronous task ID]|[Level and tag set]
    ```

### HiTraceMeter Tag

The following lists the user-mode tag set of HitraceMeter. The tag value is the left shift value of 1 in the code. You can run the hitrace -l command to view the user-mode tag. `always` and `commercial` are the default always-on tag and customized tag in commercial version scenarios, respectively.

| Name           | Constant Value at the Code Layer| Value|
| ------------------ | ------------ | ----- |
| always             | 1ULL << 0    | 00    |
| commercial         | 1ULL << 5    | 05    |
| drm                | 1ULL << 6    | 06    |
| security           | 1ULL << 7    | 07    |
| animation          | 1ULL << 9    | 09    |
| push               | 1ULL << 10   | 10    |
| virse              | 1ULL << 11   | 11    |
| ffrt               | 1ULL << 13   | 13    |
| musl               | 1ULL << 12   | 12    |
| cloud              | 1ULL << 14   | 14    |
| deviceauth         | 1ULL << 15   | 15    |
| commonlibrary      | 1ULL << 16   | 16    |
| hdcd               | 1ULL << 17   | 17    |
| hdf                | 1ULL << 18   | 18    |
| usb                | 1ULL << 19   | 19    |
| interconn          | 1ULL << 20   | 20    |
| dlpcre             | 1ULL << 21   | 21    |
| accesscontrol      | 1ULL << 22   | 22    |
| net                | 1ULL << 23   | 23    |
| nweb               | 1ULL << 24   | 24    |
| huks               | 1ULL << 25   | 25    |
| useriam            | 1ULL << 26   | 26    |
| daudio             | 1ULL << 27   | 27    |
| dlsm               | 1ULL << 28   | 28    |
| filemanagement     | 1ULL << 29   | 29    |
| ohos               | 1ULL << 30   | 30    |
| ability            | 1ULL << 31   | 31    |
| zcamera            | 1ULL << 32   | 32    |
| zmedia             | 1ULL << 33   | 33    |
| zimage             | 1ULL << 34   | 34    |
| zaudio             | 1ULL << 35   | 35    |
| distributeddatamgr | 1ULL << 36   | 36    |
| mdfs               | 1ULL << 37   | 37    |
| graphic            | 1ULL << 38   | 38    |
| ace                | 1ULL << 39   | 39    |
| notification       | 1ULL << 40   | 40    |
| misc               | 1ULL << 41   | 41    |
| multimodalinput    | 1ULL << 42   | 42    |
| sensors            | 1ULL << 43   | 43    |
| msdp               | 1ULL << 44   | 44    |
| dsoftbus           | 1ULL << 45   | 45    |
| rpc                | 1ULL << 46   | 46    |
| ark                | 1ULL << 47   | 47    |
| window             | 1ULL << 48   | 48    |
| account            | 1ULL << 49   | 49    |
| dscreen            | 1ULL << 50   | 50    |
| dcamera            | 1ULL << 51   | 51    |
| dhfwk              | 1ULL << 52   | 52    |
| gresource          | 1ULL << 53   | 53    |
| devicemanager      | 1ULL << 54   | 54    |
| samgr              | 1ULL << 55   | 55    |
| power              | 1ULL << 56   | 56    |
| dsched             | 1ULL << 57   | 57    |
| deviceprofile      | 1ULL << 58   | 58    |
| dinput             | 1ULL << 59   | 59    |
| bluetooth          | 1ULL << 60   | 60    |
| accessibility      | 1ULL << 61   | 61    |
| app                | 1ULL << 62   | 62    |

### HiTraceOutputLevel

| Enum Name (C/C++)| Enumerated Trace Output Levels (ArkTS)| Value| Trace Level|
| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------ | ------ | --------- |
| HITRACE_LEVEL_DEBUG            | DEBUG                          | 0      | D         |
| HITRACE_LEVEL_INFO             | INFO                           | 1      | I         |
| HITRACE_LEVEL_CRITICAL         | CRITICAL                       | 2      | C         |
| HITRACE_LEVEL_COMMERCIAL       | COMMERCIAL                     | 3      | M         |


### User-Mode Trace Format Before API version 19

**Synchronous trace**

 * Start format: **[Type identifier]|[Process ID]|H:[ID of the distributed call chain tracing task]#[Content]**

 * End format: **[Type identifier]|[Process ID]**


**Asynchronous trace**

 * Start format: **[Type identifier]|[Process ID]|H:[ID of the distributed call chain tracing task]#[Content] [Asynchronous task ID]**

 * End format: **[Type identifier]|[Process ID]|H:[ID of the distributed call chain tracing task]#[Content] [Asynchronous task ID]**


**Integer trace**

 * Trace format: **[Type identifier]|[Process ID]|H:[ID of the distributed call chain tracing task]#[Content] [Integer value]**

> **NOTE**
>
> The start and end formats of an asynchronous trace are the same. Note that in versions earlier than API version 19, the `asynchronous task ID` field of asynchronous tracing and the `integer` field of integer tracing are separated from the `content` field by spaces.

### Trace log examples in different scenarios before API version 19

| Trace Type           | Format When HiTraceChain is Enabled                         | Format When HiTraceChain is Disabled |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------- |
| Start a synchronous trace logging  | B\|1234\|H:[a92ab94c18e1341,0,0]#tracename      | B\|1234\|H:tracename      |
| Stop a synchronous trace logging  | E\|1234\|                                       | E\|1234\|                 |
| Start an asynchronous trace logging  | S\|1234\|H:[a92ab94c18e1341,0,0]#tracename 428  | S\|1234\|H:tracename 428  |
| Stop an asynchronous trace logging  | F\|1234\|H:[a92ab94c18e1341,0,0]#tracename 428  | F\|1234\|H:tracename 428  |
| Trace of an integer value| C\|1234\|H:[a92ab94c18e1341,0,0]#tracename 5678 | C\|1234\|H:tracename 5678 |

In the preceding samples, the process ID is **1234** and the content is **tracename**. When HiTraceChain is enabled, the ID of the distributed call chain tracing task is **[a92ab94c18e1341,0,0]**. The asynchronous task ID is **428**, and the integer value to trace is **5678**.
